Date: 09/09/2020    
Author: Andrew Albright    
Email: andrew.albright1@louisiana.edu    


# Discussion of Key Findings
## Descriptive Name of Key Result 1
N/A

## Descriptive Name of Key Result 2
N/A

# Current Difficulties

## Figuring Out What I Need to Figure Out
I have been spending a lot of time in these past couple of weeks trying to keep up with all of the new things that I need to learn before I start being productive. There are a lot of new tools and concepts I am introducing myself too and because some of these are new to me, there are multiple learning curves I am trying to get over at the same time. 

> ***JV*** That's fine. However, please try to avoid the the trap of feeling like you have to learn *everything* before you can start making progress on the research. Once we have a foundation built, we should be learning what we need as we need it. If you try to learn it all first, you'll never actually get any research done.

> ***AA*** Alright, I will focus on working on a few things at once, making a *check-off* sheet to keep track of what I have done. 

## Writing Python Code
I am facing difficulty in getting into the mode of writing Python code. Coding is not a new experience for me and the ideas behind Python coding are not particularly challenging to me. However I am finding difficulty in locking down specific things to write code for. 

> ***JV*** The scipy Lecture notes that I sent you before are where you need to start. You need to understand how to effectively and efficiently use NumPy and matplotlib. Those tutorials cover that.
>
> https://scipy-lectures.org

> ***AA*** Yes I worked through a bit of this a while ago, as we discussed over chat as well, I went back through 1.4 downloading, writing, editing, and committing the code. I will be looking to work on some of the other Python related tutorials you sent.

I have worked through many of the tutorials on basic Py and using NumPy, where I mostly just wrote sections of code, ran them, and deleted them to write the next section. I have gone out and found other resources for learning more about Python, however in doing this I have created too many "rabbit holes", if you will, where I am left wondering how I might be using Python. 

I would like to have some discussion as to how I might best go about looking into specifically how writing code in Python in the lab is used generally. Then, more specifically, how might I be using it in the future.

> ***JV*** Have you worked through all those links I sent? Read the references in them? That was the intention. A thorough reading of those would help us build a foundation from which to approach your research problem definition.

> ***AA*** I have been working through them since you sent them. I have been focusing on the impedance control and the python topics before anything. The papers within there are on my *check-off* list for the next report. 

## Balancing Class and Research
I am finding myself spending a lot of time studying my class material, in particular MCHE 513. The material is quite challenging right now and I am spending mass amounts of time every day reading the text book and working the homework problems.

> ***JV*** Graduate classes *should* be challenging and require deeper work than undergraduate classes. However, as we discussed in the meeting with all the new grad students in the group, we have to remember that they are there to support the research. The coursework is not the main point. It's, at most, 50% of your requirement for a MS degree (You need the coursework and a thesis.). So, thinking about it from that perspective, we need to be at a place where 50% of your time is spent on the research, not on a day-to-day basis necessary, but over a weeks time that should be the approximate split.

> ***AA*** I understand. It's just the one class right now, the other one is a piece of cake thus far, haha. I am looking into better balancing my time and energy in the class regardless, in particular the time I spend on individual assignments before I reach out to the professor for guidance.

# Team Activities
Currently, Darcy, Brennon and I are working on the mechanical designs for the Crawfish Peeler.

1. Brennon - is working on the clamping mechanism 
    - We had a conversation on Tuesday (09/08) related to some discussion that was had during the Preliminary Design Review (PDR).
        - Some of his designs are going to be updated before the next group meeting.
        
> ***JV*** Okay.

2. Darcy - is working on the design of the tail/body separator
    - We have not had any conversation since the PDR, however he is currently refining his design based on feedback from the PDR.
    
> ***JV*** Please be in regular touch with them. You are the team lead moving forward. Let's transition you into the role as quickly as possible.

> ***AA*** I have been doing my best thus far to keep in contact with them. I have had lots more chatting, and communication in general, with Brennan. Though, I will be seeking to get more involved with what Darcy is working on as well.

1. Myself - is working on the design for the meat separator
    - I feel I have a pretty good understanding now of the overall system and the designs that exist.
    - I am now looking into doing some design work myself to help assist some of the design deadlines.
    
> ***JV*** Please do help. You can contribute.

> ***AA*** I am working now, as you saw during the last crawfish meeting, on some subsystems which are going to be integrated into the meat extraction system.

# Papers
## High Level Reviews
1. Tucker, George, and Sergey Levine. “Tackling Open Challenges in Offline Reinforcement Learning.” Google AI Blog, 20 Aug. 2020, ai.googleblog.com/2020/08/tackling-open-challenges-in-offline.html. 
2. Es, Shahul. “Hyperparameter Tuning in Python: a Complete Guide 2020.” Neptune.ai, 21 Aug. 2020, neptune.ai/blog/hyperparameter-tuning-in-python-a-complete-guide-2020.
3.  R. Hafner et al., Towards General and Autonomous Learning of Core Skills: A Case Study in Locomotion (2020) (available at http://arxiv.org/abs/2008.12228).

I have been spending time looking into many of the other things getting me started this semester. I have a list of papers set aside which seem of interest to me and what I want to learn about in my time here at ULL.

> ***JV*** Please remember that we should be reading (at a high-level) 10+ papers per week.

> ***AA*** I understand. I know I am falling behind on this. I will get better at finding time to read relevant material.

## Detailed Reviews
I have not read, in great detail, any papers which I found were of use to the research I am looking to do.

> ***JV*** Please remember that we should be doing deep, detailed reading of 2-3 papers per week.

> ***AA*** ^

## Future Reading
### Some papers I have set aside to look into:
1. Gerald Eaglin and Joshua Vaughan. Concurrent motion planning and vibration control methods for mobile flexible systems. Under Preparation for: Control Engineering Practice, 2020.
2. Gerald Eaglin and Joshua Vaughan. Leveraging conventional control to improve performance of systems using reinforcement learning. In ASME 2020 Dynamic Systems and Control Conference, Pittsburgh, PA, USA, Oct. 4–7 2020
3. Gerald Eaglin and Joshua Vaughan. Using rrts to plan low-vibration trajectories for flexible mobile robots. In American Control Conference (ACC), Philadelphia, PA, July 10–12 2019.
4. Daniel Newman and Joshua Vaughan. Concurrent design of linear control with input shaping for a two-link flexible manipulator arm. In 14th IFAC Workshop on Time Delay Systems, Budapest, Hungary, June 28–30 2018

> ***JV*** Of the papers you list that you have looked at, please review the references to find other papers in that area. We you see a good paper, look for other papers from those authors, look to see who they reference, etc. Let that help guide your reading.

> ***AA*** Will do. I am still relatively new to the reading of research papers, and academically driven material in general, so I am still getting a feel for what is a "good paper".

### What I am aiming to achieve from reading these papers: 
I am looking to start building a bit of knowledge on systems with compliance built into the mechanical designs. While building this knowledge, I am looking to work with my advisor to start steering my efforts towards something that will be productive for my research interest.

> ***JV*** Of course. Spending more time reading journal articles is the path to this. 

### Why I am looking to achieve that:
I am at ULL to learn more about what I find interesting in the field of mechanical engineering and robotics, while also committing some of my time to assist in the designs for the Crawfish Peeler. If these can overlap, fantastic. Regardless, I am hoping to learn more about robotics systems with built in compliance.

# Plan for the Next Two Weeks

> ***JV*** Sub-system designs for the crawfish peeler? Finsihing the SciPy Lecture notes tutorials (and syncing the code to GitHub) through section 1.5?

> ***AA*** As an update on the SciPy lectures, sections 1.1-3 are not something that I felt I needed to download or write any code for. I am not totally new to coding at all. I have some experience writing in C and very little (before coming here) writing in Py. However 1.4 was more useful and I have run through it and made sense of what I found. I have started looking into 1.5, which thus far seems to be more in depth material on how to manipulate and articulate data using matplitlib. I will be uploading code as I work through this.

## Ideas Looking Forward

### Crawfish Peeler Project
After a few meetings with the team, I have become more familiar with the project as a whole and have enjoyed seeing the team come up with some solutions together. I would say as a whole, my position in the team right now is still one of learning and inputting where I might know things others do not. My ideas so far relate to design concerns in terms of feasibility of fabrication and assembly.

> ***JV*** As I mention above, you are the team lead moving forward. Let's transition you into the role as quickly as possible. Start contributing to the design now. There are sub-systems that you can take care of now.

>***AA*** See comment above about getting involved.

### Robotics Research
I am not invested deep enough into my research here to have any ideas worth noting I don't think. 

> ***JV*** Okay. Let's please correct this moving forward.

>***AA*** Yes sir. 

## Current Next Steps

### Crawfish Peeler Project
Get the mechanical design finished up and a final design review date set as to allow us to get on target with having hardware to demonstrate for the customer.

### Robotics Research
Continue figuring out what it is that need to figure out. Find a starting point to begin my learning so I can start diving into things that will aid in my learning about my interests.

## Expectations for Next Report (09/23/2020)
1. Having started to build a network of sources which will aid in my learning about robotics systems.

> ***JV*** This will be ongoing. What, specifically, do you hope to learn? I've copied the links that I sent in the email after our first meeting. These are the topics I think that you can spin up on quickly. Be sure to look at the journal articles references in the blog-post-type posts. The links in reinforcement learning and evaolutionary algorithms also have code associate with them that you could work through to improve your Python skills, while learning more about the algorithms themselves.

>***AA*** There are a few things I am interested in leaning about. Mostly I am interested in learning about how to develop a controls algorithm to control robotics systems, particularly ones which move in a semi-organic way. Such as the running and jumping robots. However, I would say ultimately, I am interesting in learning about how to implement RL into the development of controls systems of robots. And maybe, if I can get this far in my time here, learning about implementing RL to develop a controls system for those same robots, but with compliant structures.

> # Reinforcement Learning
> * https://spinningup.openai.com/
> * http://www.argmin.net/2018/06/25/outsider-rl/
> * https://lilianweng.github.io/lil-log/2018/02/19/a-long-peek-into-reinforcement-learning.html
> 
> 
> # Evolutionary Algorithms
> * https://blog.otoro.net/2017/10/29/visual-evolution-strategies/
> * https://blog.otoro.net/2017/11/12/evolving-stable-strategies/
> * https://designrl.github.io
> * https://attentionagent.github.io
> * https://lilianweng.github.io/lil-log/2019/09/05/evolution-strategies.html
> 
> 
> # Impedance Control
> * Videos
>    - [x] https://youtu.be/GjKy3EFs3g8
>    - [x] https://youtu.be/_Az608TI-NI
>    - [x] https://youtu.be/sbhiNNIxMNQ
>    - [x] https://youtu.be/WS1gSRcJbJQ
>    - [x] https://youtu.be/_Yxy8HQVkhg
> 
> * Tutorials & Workshops
>    - http://summerschool.stiff-project.org/
>    - http://www.robot-manipulation.uk/impedance_control_tutorial.pdf
>       - ***AA*** - this is not a link that takes me anywhere
>       - See:
>           - https://www.robot-manipulation.uk/past-workshops
>           - https://ca3e0a00-eee4-4749-bfdc-8c5ca77c5b48.filesusr.com/ugd/20f657_82365f86f4334bb5ac0a95f1c9fa0442.pdf
> 
> * High-level Overviews, etc
>    - [x] https://medium.com/@annika.wollschlaeger/impedance-control-explained-1af8b3c334e9
> 
> * The "foundational" papers
>    - [x] https://asmedigitalcollection.asme.org/dynamicsystems/article-abstract/107/1/1/400604
>    - https://asmedigitalcollection.asme.org/dynamicsystems/article-abstract/107/1/8/400625
> 
> 
> # Other relevant links
> * https://youtu.be/2NVFymqa
>   - this video is unavailable


1. Having connected more with Evan about the research he is doing, given it is similar to what I am interested in.

> ***JV*** Please do so.

>***AA*** Well...

1. Having demonstrated significant progress in the designs of the Crawfish Peeler.

> ***JV*** Initial design of shell cutting subsystem? Initial design of meat "fork" sub-system?

>***AA*** Working on it.

## Current Schedule Outlook
Currently scheduled to have a group meeting this week, and a weekly check in for the Crawfish Peeler on Monday (09/14). 

# Long-term planning

## Upcoming Paper Deadlines
I believe I am going to be looking to get something published for the Spring conference.

## Administrative Deadlines
I believe the next deadline that I am involved with is the next meeting with the customer for the Crawfish Peeling project. As far as this is concerned, it seems the project is behind and in need of some rushing to get everything done in time. 

> ***JV*** Yes. Please help out by working with Brennan on his overall design and taking and running with one or more subsystems.

>***AA*** Yep, working on it.

I am going to be looking into this, with hopes of getting the undergrads on the same page with the design expectations. 

> ***JV*** Please work together with Evan and Kyle to establish what the paperwork deadlines are for your MS program. There are several forms that we need to submit along the way. Include their due dates (It can be something general like, End of Spring Semester 2021, etc).

>***AA*** Will reach out to Kyle about this.

>***AA*** I apologize for taking a while to get back on this as well. I will do better at responding directly in this report quicker so you don't feel the need to reach out.
