Date: 09/23/2020    
Author: Andrew Albright    
Email: andrew.albright1@louisiana.edu    


# Discussion of Key Findings
I am not in the process of running tests with the goal of finding results right now. Perhaps when I get into learning more about RL I will be running some "experimental" example tests just to learn. When I do, if they are relevant, I will put them in this section.

> ***JV*** Please do. Even writing up the tutorial results, and your modifications to the tutorial results, is a worthwhile exercise. It'll force you to get your plotting pipeline worked out and allow you to get practice writing about results.

> ***AA*** Will be working on these over that over the next two weeks.

## Descriptive Name of Key Result 1
N/A

## Descriptive Name of Key Result 2
N/A

# Current Difficulties

## Theoretical/Analytical Difficulties
### Understanding the Math Behind Impedance Control
As I've begun to spend more time investing in my understanding of the topic I have found my overall understanding of the goals and purpose of Impedance Control have increased. However, in reading through the foundational papers, and others, I am finding it difficult to keep up with the math that is discussed. I would say my understanding of some of the individual concepts within the matrix algebra is where I am struggling. As I have been reading, I often highlight what I don't understand and either go on a tangent trying to understand that thing, or come back to it later.

> ***JV*** That's the way to read. However, do *not* feel like you have to understand *every* piece of the paper. Remember that journal articles are the results of 6-18 months of work. It will take some time to understand them. The most important point is to be mapping our your high-level understanding of the subject area, making connections between methods, understanding what level of contribution is required for a paper, etc.

> ***AA*** Right, I will discuss more about this in the *Papers* section.

### Understanding the Math Behind Deep RL
I have only very recently started looking deeper into this topic and have begun finding difficulty keeping up with the math that is presented in the papers thus far.

> ***JV*** See the above comment.
>
> If you need to brush up on linear algebra, this is a very good series: https://youtu.be/fNk_zzaMoSs
>
> Similarly, this is a good overview of neural networks: https://youtu.be/aircAruvnKk

> ***AA*** I will definitely take a look at these. Unfortunately, I did not graduate with a bachelors in Mechanical Engineering so I never took a Lin Algebra course, most of what I know is from immersion in material, or Khan Academy.

> ***JV*** Please don't let not having the class prevent you from learning something. In fact, most of the MCHE students from UL don't take linear algebra either. I'm confident that you can learn what linear algebra you need to do this work. Don't hesitate to ask if you have questions, either me or the other graduate students. 

## Technical/Implementation Difficulties
### Using Microsoft...
This hasn't been an issue until recently, as again, I am just getting into some RL topics. We had a bit of a discussion about this on Slack, and I am going to be looking into utilizing Google Colab and/or Paperspace. I am not totally sure as to how I will be using them, but that is to come.

> ***JV*** You should be able to find *many* tutorials on using Google Colab. The Getting Started documents on PaperSpace are well done and should provide the help you need.

> ***AA*** I will look into this as well.

# Team Activities
Brennon, Darcy and myself are still moving forward with the designs and concepts of the different sub-systems of the Crawfish Peeler.

1. Brennon - is still working on the clamping mechanism 
    * Per our meeting on Monday (09/21) he is going to be refining the interaction of the clamp rollers with the cam-like guide which they roll on.
2. Darcy - is beginning the designs for the cutting sub-system which will interface with Brennon and I's designs.
3. Myself - is working on refining the designs for the meat separator per discussion that was had during the last Crawfish Peeling meeting (09/21).
4. I am going to be setting up reminders twice a week, and notifying the guys that I am doing so, so that they can keep me up to date on their regular process on designs. 
    * I am doing this is hopes of keeping an open dialog going as well as keeping the project in focus
    
> ***JV*** Sounds good.

# Papers
## High Level Reviews
1. L. Buşoniu, T. de Bruin, D. Tolić, J. Kober, I. Palunko, Reinforcement learning for control: Performance, stability, and deep approximators. Annual Reviews in Control. 46 (2018), pp. 8–28.
2.  J. Buchli, E. Theodorou, F. Stulp, S. Schaal, in Robotics: Science and Systems (MIT Press Journals, 2011), vol. 6, pp. 153–160.
3.   Y. Huang, in Deep Reinforcement Learning: Fundamentals, Research and Applications (Springer Singapore, 2020), pp. 135–160.
4.   P. J. Gawthrop, G. P. Bevan, A tutorial introduction for control engineers. IEEE Control Systems. 27, 24–45 (2007).
5.   S. A. Khader, H. Yin, P. Falco, D. Kragic, Stability-Guaranteed Reinforcement Learning for Contact-rich Manipulation (2020) (available at http://arxiv.org/abs/2004.10886).

I have spent the majority of my research time trying to understand the basics of Impedance Control. I have been working through the list of items you sent me and am trying not to get too hung up on any one detail. The videos were great, specifically the ones where Dr. Hogan discusses his work on the field. I tend to learn quicker when I can learn through listening and watching. I've been struggling to understand everything in the "foundational papers" however, leading to me spending lots of time trying to understand the things that are needed to build the foundation of Impedance Control. I have recently starting looking into some of the other lectures I have found in https://summerschool.stiff-project.org/videos/index.html which I am hoping will lead to some good results in so far as my understanding of the topic is concerned.

> ***JV*** Please remember that we need to be looking at 10+ papers per week. This is essential to building and maintaining your expertise. It is not an optional exercise.

> ***AA*** See below for comments.

## Detailed Reviews

### Hogan, N. (March 1, 1985). "Impedance Control: An Approach to Manipulation: Part I—Theory." ASME. J. Dyn. Sys., Meas., Control. March 1985; 107(1): 1–7. https://doi.org/10.1115/1.3140702

#### Summary
"Foundational paper" which develops the theory behind the implementation of Impedance Control. Introduces the idea that the environment in which the robot will be acting in, should be seen as an admittance, or something that accepts an effort source such as a force and yields a flow source such as motion. In turn, the robot should then be treated as an Impedance, or something that, in the opposite manner of the environment, accepts a flow source like an electrical current, and yields an effort source like a force.

#### Main Contribution to Relationship Field
Contributes to the field by developing the theory of Impedance Control in a somewhat understandable way. Though I do not understand it yet.

#### Relevance to Current Research
This is something I am reading, which was recommended by you, to help jump me into the study of Impedance Control. Its relevance is in it being the foundation of the topic.

#### Notes:
Although I've read this in entirety, multiple times, there are parts of it that I do not understand yet. According to the paper you sent "How to Read a Paper Efficiently" I have not completed the requirements for a "third" time through as I cannot reproduce the results on my own. I have highlighted sections which I am working through daily to try and understand.

### Hogan, N. (March 1, 1985). "Impedance Control: An Approach to Manipulation: Part II—Implementation." ASME. J. Dyn. Sys., Meas., Control. March 1985; 107(1): 8–16. https://doi.org/10.1115/1.3140713

#### Summary
"Foundational Paper" which develops some of the first implementations of Impedance Control. Utilizes descriptions of biological systems and the way in which they operate to describe a way to design a control strategy which could better emulate biology.

#### Main Contribution to Relationship Field
Contributes to the field by developing the theory of Impedance Control in a somewhat understandable way. Though I do not understand it yet.

#### Relevance to Current Research
This is something I am reading, which was recommended by you, to help jump me into the study of Impedance Control. Its relevance is in it being the foundation of the topic.

#### Notes:
Although I've read this in entirety, multiple times, there are parts of it that I do not understand yet. According to the paper you sent "How to Read a Paper Efficiently" I have not completed the requirements for a "third" time through as I cannot reproduce the results on my own. I have highlighted sections which I am working through daily to try and understand.

### Hogan, N. (March 1, 1985). "Impedance Control: An Approach to Manipulation: Part III—Applications." ASME. J. Dyn. Sys., Meas., Control. March 1985; 107(1): 17–24. https://doi.org/10.1115/1.3140701

#### Summary
Though I put this under detail review, I do not fully understand the work in this article yet. I have read it in entirety once to get the general ideas along with Parts I and II. I am working from front to back currently trying to make better sense of the work achieved here.

#### Main Contribution to Relationship Field
^^

#### Relevance to Current Research
This is something I am reading, which was recommended by you, to help jump me into the study of Impedance Control. Its relevance is in it being the foundation of the topic.

#### Notes:
Although I've read this in entirety, multiple times, there are parts of it that I do not understand yet. According to the paper you sent "How to Read a Paper Efficiently" I have not completed the requirements for a "third" time through as I cannot reproduce the results on my own. I have highlighted sections which I am working through daily to try and understand.

> ***JV*** Please remember that we need to be reading at 2-3 papers in detail per week, not per report. This is essential to building and maintaining your expertise. It is not an optional exercise.

> ***AA*** So to be clear, a "Detailed Review" is not one which we are expected to be able to reproduce the results? I spent a lot of time these past few weeks really trying to understand these papers in entirety, which I was not successful in doing, though I understand the concepts much better than I did two weeks ago. I understand that the more I read, the more I will begin to build an understanding of the material. I thought I was expected to fully understand some of these papers though.?

> ***JV*** I'd say just one step short of fully reproducing. I'll often sketch out the pseudo-code for a paper that it closely related to what I'm working on. For papers that are *truly* foundational, I will reproduce. However, I don't think that you are to that point for any of your reading yet. That said, you should be approaching a "full" (but young) understanding of the papers. Can you explain them in a few sentences (like our template asks for above)? Could you explain the main ideas to an upper level undergrad? Could you explain the same idea in a way that a lower-level undergrad could understand?

## Future Reading
### Types of papers I plan to read in the next two weeks:
1. I am going to be reading over the foundational papers I have above again, and probably again, making better attempts to understand the math behind the idea.
2. I will also begin to read through the material that is present in the Spinning Up page.

### What I am aiming to achieve from reading these papers: 
1. Help me better understand the theory of Impedance Control from a mathematics perspective.
2. Get me into the mindset of thinking about RL and what possibilities exist in discovering and learning something new.

### Why I am looking to achieve that:
1. I am looking to gain knowledge and experience in this area of study and I need to understand the basics before I try and develop something new.
2. ^^

# Plan for the Next Two Weeks
My plans at a top level are to continue working on the Crawfish Peeler with the team, as well as finding more time to get involved in the topics related to RL and Impedance Control. In particular I will be looking to get into going through some examples which implement RL and/or Impedance Control in Python. 

> ***JV*** Please start working the examples. Sync that example code to GitHub. We need to be moving away from the pure "reading" phase toward understanding the methods through implementing them.

> Yes sir.

## Ideas Looking Forward

### Crawfish Peeler Project
We are coming up with designs right now, and while going through that process ideas are thrown about in the hopes of improving the designs as a whole. Currently, as mentioned before, my goal is to increase communication consistency in the team so that we might get those ideas flowing about more often.

### Robotics Research
As I have gotten into reading the material related to the topics I am going to be learning more about in my time here I have found there to be quite a bit that I am unclear about in the math area of the reading. I often find my time being spent trying to understand this type of material. 

## Current Next Steps

### Crawfish Peeler Project
Get the mechanical design finished up and a final design review date set as to allow us to get on target with having hardware to demonstrate for the customer.

### Robotics Research
Continue figuring out what it is that need to figure out. Find a starting point to begin my learning so I can start diving into things that will aid in my learning about my interests.

## Expectations for Next Report (09/23/2020)
1. Having spent more time reading papers and filling in some of the gaps in my understanding of the material.
    * As apart of this I am going to reach out with more questions in hopes of getting some guidance of where to look for answers instead of wasting time looking randomly for answers that may or may not be relevant.
    
2. Having some completed designs ready for fabrication for the Crawfish Peeler.
   1. Myself - Meat Removal Subsystem
   2. Brennon - Meat Grasping Subsystem
   3. Darcy - Shell Cutting Subsystem
   
> ***JV*** 
> 3. Completed the SciPy Lecture notes tutorials through Section 1.5 and synced that code to GitHub. 
> 4. Worked through the tutorial examples in Spinning Up in RL and synced that code to GitHub.  
> 5. Run at least some of the above in Google Colab or Paperspace.

> ***AA*** All are added to my To-Do list.

## Current Schedule Outlook
* 09/25 - Full Team Meeting
* 09/25 - Crawfish Peeling Team Check-In
* 09/28 - Crawfish Peeling Meeting
* 09/29 - Crawfish Peeling Team Check-In
* 09/30 - Crawfish Peeling Report Due
* 10/01 - **ENGR 501 Exam 1**

> ***JV*** Good luck. How are classes going so far? How is MCHE 513?

> ***AA*** 501 is pretty lax as far as material is concerned. 513 is definitely the class that is taking the majority of my time. I am not great at Matrix Algebra which makes understanding the math challenging. I have been trying to better my understanding of the material, and will continue to do so.

> ***JV*** Good. MCHE513 is class that can be helpful for your research;  dyanmics is pretty central to what we do.

* 10/02 - Full Team Meeting
* 10/02 - Crawfish Peeling Team Check-In
* 10/06 - Crawfish Peeling Team Check-In

# Long-term planning

## Upcoming Paper Deadlines
I believe I am going to be looking to get something published for the Spring conference season. Which in that case, I think I am in need of getting something to write about.

> ***JV*** To get to that, we need to move beyond the "just reading" phase. We need to keep reading, but we also need to start *doing* on the research side. The reading will actually start to make more sense then too.

> ***AA*** Understood. I have added some things to my list of To-Dos per your suggestions. Yes, hopefully they will also assist in helping me better understand the material, too.

## Administrative Deadlines
### Crawfish Peeler
* Customer Meeting on 10/14
  * We are going to have designs completed and a working prototype by then.

### Research
* Getting paperwork dates and specifics figured out still.
  * Kyle and I have been chatting and looking for time to figure out what we are going to need to get done.

> ***JV*** Let's get this done by the next individual report. Discuss with Gerald and/or Dallas and get their advice on the timeline too.

> ***AA*** Will do.