Reviewer 12 of ACC 2022 submission 1034

Comments to the author
======================

The authors present the results of applying deep
reinforcement learning to optimize the mechanical design of
a pogo stick bouncing system. Although the work appears to
be novel, I believe the contribution made here is too small
for publication at ACC. Furthermore I believe the
contribution made should be better motivated and explained
in the text, in addition to fixing up some other minor
presentation issues.

The biggest issue I have with this paper is that RL seems
completely unnecessary to solve the problem at hand. With
two degrees of freedom, this optimization problem can be
solved with a manual parameter sweep (which is indeed done
by the authors in figures 6 and 7). The contribution of
this paper then is not showing that a problem that was
difficult to solve before can be done with RL, it is merely
showing that RL can solve one already easy to solve problem
in this space (likely using more time and compute than a
brute force search!). I think this should be acknowledged
in the paper. 

I think the paper would be much stronger using the
presented pogo stick example as a starting point used to
validate the approach, and then applying this same
technique to a higher dimensional or otherwise more
difficult problem (even if it is still a toy example). 

I also did not see the episode length explicitly mentioned,
is it 6 timesteps? as implied in the control design
section?

Now some other nits.
1. The authors criticize other work for not validating on
hardware, but the authors do not either, so I am not sure
what that criticism accomplishes.

2. If you used stable-baslelines you should cite it (also,
stable-baselines =/= stable-baselines3, though the latter
is a bit more popular IIRC.

3. I think learning_starts=100 is already the default, I
don't think you need to explain it, and furthermore calling
it "the rollout setting" I think is confusing. 

4. It looks like you are using \mathbb{R} for the reward
function, I think this is normally reserved to represent
the real numbers. 

5. I am glad to see the authors used 100 random seeds, but
I think this is overkill, I think something on the order of
10 is more appropriate.
